# Supervised Classification for Red and White Wine

The following report was a final capstone project for Introduction to Data Mining Subject which required students to use selected supervised classification or regression algorithms to analyse a dataset. The following extract is the abstract of the report listed in the hyperlink listed below detailing the scope of the project, methods used and overall findings and recommendations. 

## Abstract
The grapevine Vitis Vinifera has an approximate 5000-10000 grape varieties throughout the world covering 0.5% of the world's agricultural land. Although there are many distinctive types, only a few are commercially successful therefore many business stakeholders involved with wine look to data mining methods to identify trends within the data determine the winning combination of chemical and physical properties of wines. The purpose of this report was to identify the patterns present in the dataset by performing principal component analysis and accurately classify the red and white wines using a number of supervised classification techniques. The results of PCA revealed that the red and white wine observation formed two distinctive clusters with majority of the variation occurring for the first 3 PCs. Overall all supervised classification algorithms yielded high performance metrics due to the pre-processing decisions enacted on the data. LDA was the most accurate classification method followed closely by KNN due to the separation of red and white clusters. The most important aspects when classifying red and white wines was sulfur dioxide, chlorides and volatile acidity whilst the least important aspects in differentiating was residual sugar, citric acid and alcohol. Differences between wine types are most likely due to the inherent differences that occur during the fermentation process whilst the least important aspect for classification are fermentation strategies similar to both wine types. 

https://danielmajer24.github.io/Wine-Classification/
